# Event_Management

Event management is a process of organizing a professional and focused event, for a particular target audience. It involves visualizing concepts, planning, budgeting, organizing and executing events such as wedding, musical concerts, corporate seminars, exhibitions, birthday celebrations, theme parties, etc. Event Management is a multi-million dollar industry, growing rapidly, with events hosted regularly. Surprisingly, there is no formalized research conducted to access the growth of this industry. The industry includes fields such as the MICE (Meetings, Incentives and Events), exhibitions, conferences and seminars as well as live music and sporting events. On the profession side, event management is a glamorous and exciting profession that demands a lot of hard work and dynamism. The logistics side of the industry is paid less than the sales/sponsorship side, though some may say that these are two different industries.

Event management is the application of project management to the creation and development of large scale events. The process of planning and coordinating the event is usually referred to as event planning and which can include budgeting, scheduling, site selection, acquiring necessary permits, coordinating transportation and parking, arranging for speakers or entertainers, arranging decor, event security, catering, coordinating with third party vendors, and emergency plans. The events industry now includes events of all sizes from the Olympics down to business breakfast meetings. Many industries, charitable organizations, and interest groups hold events in order to market themselves, build business relationships, raise money, or celebrate achievement
